In Syria, where U.S.-backed negotiations to end the civil war have been scheduled and canceled a half-dozen times since the spring, the parties on the ground seem less amenable than ever to a diplomatic solution, and Washington and Tehran remain on opposite sides.

Meanwhile, the Iran agreement, seen by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as a threat to regional stability, may hamper his government’s willingness to compromise with the Palestinians in talks backed by the United States.

But for the moment, whatever critics may say of the interim Iran accord — and they are saying a lot — it has the virtue of allowing the administration to claim an achievement in something it set out to do. Whether Obama will be able to make the sale — after Israel and many U.S. lawmakers condemned the accord before the text was even released Sunday morning — remains uncertain.

The extent to which Obama can convince critics at home and abroad to give the interim deal time to work is also likely to influence the far more difficult work ahead of negotiating a permanent resolution to the Iranian nuclear problem from a position of strength.

“I think everybody has a right to be skeptical, because there are indications that there are people in Iran who have wanted to pursue a weapons program, that there have been secret facilities building some of those efforts towards that program,” Secretary of State John F. Kerry said Sunday on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”

Kerry dismissed those who have labeled the administration naive for trusting Iran’s good faith.

“You don’t have to trust the people you’re dealing with,” he said. “You have to have a mechanism put in place whereby you know exactly what you’re getting and you know exactly what they’re doing. And we believe we are at the beginning of putting that in place with Iran.”

At home, Obama and Kerry will have to persuade skeptical lawmakers of both parties not to move ahead with new sanctions against Iran that the agreement explicitly says will not happen.